It's nice that we're able to navigate with router link
but sometimes you want to trigger the navigation in your javascript code because some operation finished
and you want to navigate away let's say. I'm going to simulate this in the user component here,
here I will first add my script path and export my javascript object and in here I simply want
to set up a method to which I can bind a button thereafter, I'll name it navigate to home and all
I want to do here is well navigate to my home page.
So in the user page itself, I'll set up a div because again we may only have one root element in here,
so let's set up this
and then there, I want to have a button.
Now of course I could just use a router link but you get my point I think, what I want to show here,
so go to a home and then I want to add a click listener and execute navigate to home,
so this method I just set up.
Now how do we navigate from within our code?
Well in our method, we can access our vue instance and there, we will have the router available with
$router,
so this is the general theme of objects from vue itself or from your router in this case, having the
dollar sign at the beginning to mark that this is not our own object but instead is provided by
another package to us. On this router, we can now trigger navigation by calling push and push is the word we
use because we want to push it on the stack of existing routes so that our back and forward buttons
will work fine because we will have the old route saved as well,
so this pushes it on the stack of routes we're at therefore. Now push in its simplest case simply
takes the path where we want to go, like this but we could also pass an object here where we say path
should be this and that is of course not really an improvement to just specifying the path but I will come
back to passing an object as a routing target for route to link as well as a side note in one of the
next lectures,
for now let's keep it simple and simply go to slash.
Now to see this in action,
I'll just add some nice styling to this button,
let's head over to the user page and click go to home
and we're back on the home page.
This is how easy it is to navigate in our code
and of course you hopefully see the similarity to our router link where we also have this to attribute
here where we specify a path
while I do the same here with push.